The course aimed to teach students about the fundamental challenges of machine learning, such as model selection and model complexity, and the underlying mathematical relationships within and across machine learning algorithms. Students were also taught to characterize the strengths and weaknesses of various machine learning approaches and algorithms, design, implement, analyze, and apply different data mining, machine learning techniques, and deep learning techniques for big/business datasets in organizational contexts and for real-world applications. The course also covered the application areas, trends, and challenges in data mining and machine learning. The students were required to complete a project and report that reflected on their critical awareness of methodological choices and written skills to accepted academic standards.


Project Abstract: Efficient food supply chains and the reduction of food waste play a crucial role in modern societies. A reliable prediction of the quality of fruits could help facilitate automatic harvesting and automatic sorting out of rotten fruits. This paper describes an approach to automatically predict the condition of fruits via the application of Convolutional Neural Networks. For this purpose, two Convolutional Neural Networks were built and benchmarked against a pre-trained VGG16 model. All three models performed well in terms of Accuracy, Recall, Recall and F1-score, which showed that it is possible to predict the quality of fruits reliably. Nevertheless, the Transfer Learning approach with the VGG16 model delivered the best results while at the same time keeping Runtime and Complexity on a low level. Overall, the paper therefore gives cause for optimism that automated fruit recognition can lead to technical innovations in the food supply chain in the near future.
