Course Description

The course taught students about the phenomena of text analytics and Natural Language Processing, including fundamental concepts, techniques and methods of Natural Language Processing. Students learned to analyze and apply different text analytics techniques for big/business datasets in organizational contexts, and understand the linkages between business intelligence and text analytics and the potential benefits for organizations. The course also covered the application areas, trends, and challenges in text analysis, and students were required to exhibit deeper knowledge and understanding of the topics as part of a project, with the report reflecting critical awareness of methodological choices and written to accepted academic standards.

Project Description

This project explores different approaches to classify and create topics for financial consumer complaints by leveraging natural language processing models. First, five different topic classification models were used: Random Forest, Binomial Naive Bayes, Logistic Regression, Linear SVC, and a Convolutional Neural Network. We found that the Linear SVC model was the best at classifying ten issue topics with an accuracy of 76%. Additionally, the performance measures of precision, recall, and further results in the confusion matrix confirm that the model performs moderately well.
Moreover, we analyzed how clustering and unsupervised machine learning can be utilized to create topics with a predefined amount and to let the model decide the number of clusters. The two models that we used were Latent Dirichlet Allocation (LDA) and Top2Vec. In the end, we found that the LDA model works best at evaluating the current labels and improving upon them, whereas Top2Vec works best when the goal is finding new insights.
Finally, we concluded that a company needs to be aware of its needs before trying to use NLP for topic classification or modeling customer complaints. Topic classification only works when the company already has predefined topics and would want to classify incoming complaints within these topics. On the other hand, topic modeling is also useful when a company does not have predefined topics and still would like to cluster the complaints into different groups.
