Course Description

The course aimed to teach students about the phenomena of visual analytics and its application of fundamental concepts, techniques and methods. Students were taught basic knowledge of data types, data structures, and how to interact with a relational database management system. The course also covered the ability to analyze and apply visual analytics techniques for big/business data sets in organizational contexts, understand the linkages between business intelligence and visual analytics and the potential benefits for organizations, apply analytical skills for implementation of business data processing using Business Intelligence and Reporting tools, exhibit basic knowledge of securing or masking sensitive data while applying visual analytics, and exhibit deeper knowledge and understanding of the topics as part of a project, with the report reflecting critical awareness of methodological choices and written to accepted academic standards.

Project Description

As part of the “Visual Analytics” course at Copenhagen Business School a dataset on videos featured in “Trending on YouTube” is examined, transformed and visualized in the form of a dynamic dashboard that is intended to provide insights for content creators and advertisers.
“Trending on YouTube” is a list of trending videos selected by an algorithm that are displayed in a separate section on YouTube. The list is updated every 15 minutes, with videos being added and removed from the list (YouTube, 2021a). “Trending on YouTube” tries to capture the general mood of current activities on the platform by selecting videos that have the following characteristics: They “are appealing to a wide range of viewers”; they “are not misleading, clickbaity or sensational”; they “capture the breadth of what’s happening on YouTube and in the world”; they “showcase a diversity of creators” and they are ideally “surprising or novel” (YouTube, 2021a). To identify videos fulfilling these criteria the algorithm considers the following, not exhaustive, signals: “View count”; “how quickly the video is generating views (i.e. “temperature”); “where views are coming from, including outside of YouTube”; “the age of the video” and “how the video performs compared to other recent uploads from the same channel”. Trending videos differ between countries, but are identical within a country, i.e. the videos are not personalized to the individual YouTube visitor (YouTube, 2021a). Moreover, it is not possible for channels to pay in order to be featured in “Trending on YouTube” (YouTube, 2021a).
