Course Description

The course aimed to teach students about blockchain technology in relation to transactions, blocks, and distributed consensus mechanisms, as well as fundamental concepts, techniques and methods of blockchain. Students explored platforms such as Hyperledger Fabric to implement blockchain-based applications for multiple application domains, learned to identify key technical challenges and design goals for building blockchain applications, critically assess the usage of blockchain technology for building applications other than cryptocurrencies, and outline the applicability of blockchain technology for different domains and use cases including supply chain, finance, and other domains.

Project Description

This paper discusses how blockchain technology can be used to improve the integrity and transparency of democratic elections. The authors first describe the requirements and problems of traditional election systems, including the need for accurate recording of votes, accessibility, voter privacy, reliability, and transparency. They argue that blockchain technology, with its decentralized and secure nature, can address these issues and restore trust in the electoral process. To demonstrate this, the authors present a proof-of-concept for a blockchain-based voting system using Hyperledger Fabric and Fabcar. They discuss the benefits and limitations of this approach and provide an overview of related work in the field. The authors conclude that the proof of concept is a viable and applicable introduction to the implementation process of an election system that would lead to restoring voter confidence in elections.
