Course Description

The course aimed to teach students about the concepts, models, and methods of forecasting analysis, and how to identify and perform an academically founded forecasting analysis in practice, taking relevant theoretical relationships into account using the tools introduced during the course. Students learned to discuss and solve any important problems encountered in relation to the analysis, evaluate the forecasts of the analysis, report and communicate the results and conclusions of the analysis both to statisticians/econometricians and to non-specialists such as CEOs, evaluate a forecasting analysis conducted by another person or researcher, and use statistical analysis software packages such as R or SAS and demonstrate the ability to interpret and evaluate the output from the software package.

Project Description

While inflation has been rising all over Europe in recent months and new highs are being announced continuously, the ECB is still sticking to its lax monetary policy with negative interest rates (Forbes, 2022). For the traditional saver, this means that he or she loses money every day just by leaving it in the account. The Corona pandemic and the war in Ukraine have also shown that the stock markets are becoming increasingly detached from reality. This uncertainty discourages many people from investing their assets in stocks or other securities. Another, more conservative option for investing assets lies in the real estate market. However, in order to invest in real estate, the investor must first ascertain how the value of this property will develop over the next few years.
This paper will use ten years of monthly data to try to predict this development in value for the Copenhagen apartment and house market. More precisely, it will try to predict square meter prices in Copenhagen. For this purpose, different ETS and ARIMA forecasting models are developed and compared with respect to various statistical criteria. The study shows that among all models, the ETS (A,Ad,A) model performs best. Overall, however, it appears to be very difficult to produce a truly reliable forecast for housing prices based on time trends and the methods used.
