Course Description

The course aimed to teach students to demonstrate data fetch from online data sharing WEB APIs, compare the standard data formats for data sharing across software platforms, reflect on different data storage possibilities available for business data, explain and demonstrate knowledge of data processing, data storage and data retrieval using relational database structure and structured query language, demonstrate understanding for NoSQL databases, describe an understanding of complete end to end business data analysis process, apply analytical skills for implementation of business data processing using Business Intelligence and Reporting tools and substantiate expertise for using data analysis and reporting tools.

Project Description

The acquisition of the first own apartment or the first own house is a special event in the life of every adult. And because it is a very long-term investment, the decision to buy a property should be made carefully. However, those who move to a new country, or a new area usually do not know much about it, there is a certain information gap for national but also local immigrants. To close this information gap, one must do some research. In Denmark, you can do this mainly with the help of a website called Boliga.dk. Boliga.dk belongs to the media company Boliga Gruppen A/S and went live for the first time in January 2007. Its mission is to make the Danish housing market more transparent. (Boliga Gruppen a/S, 2022) Therefore Boliga.dk lists nearly all apartment and/or house sales in Denmark within the last 30 years and gives information about the year of construction, the price, the size, and many other characteristics of the object.
In addition to its list display, Boliga.dk also has a map function. However, both functions do not allow for a visual, in-depth analysis of residential areas. But the attractiveness of an individual property is always dependent on its surroundings, and the information about such an object only unfolds its true potential when it is seen in comparison and certain trends are revealed. In this paper, the existing sales information from Boliga.dk is used to create an interactive dashboard that enables a comparative analysis of properties and residential areas across Denmark.
